Document vcpkg-make port. (#278)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/maintainers/functions/vcpkg_make_configure.md

---
title: vcpkg_make_configure
description: Use vcpkg_make_configure to configure a Make-based project.
ms.date: 01/30/2024
---
# vcpkg_make_configure

Configure a Make-based project.

## Usage
        
```cmake
vcpkg_make_configure(
    [AUTOCONFIG]
    [COPY_SOURCE]
    [DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS]
    [NO_CPPFLAGS]
    [ADD_BIN_TO_PATH]
    [NO_DEFAULT_OPTIONS]
    [NO_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING]
    [USE_RESPONSE_FILES]
    [SOURCE_PATH <source-path>]
    [OPTIONS <configure-setting>...]
    [OPTIONS_RELEASE <configure-setting>...]
    [OPTIONS_DEBUG <configure-setting>...]
    [PRE_CONFIGURE_CMAKE_COMMANDS <cmake-command>...]

>     [LANGUAGES <language>...]

Reviewer: I miss `SKIP_CONFIGURE`, or more generally options overriding the configure command. Is this postponed to a future revision?

Reviewer 2: postponed until something uses it. No usage no interface.

Reviewer: Well, it was broken until a few months ago. The workaround was installing no-op `configure`s.
Or wrappers for the actual configure scripts, as for openssl.

Reviewer: I mean we would need `SKIP_CONFIGURE` if we could set `CONFIGURE_COMMAND`.

)
```

To use this function, you must depend on the helper port `vcpkg-make`:

```json
"dependencies": [
  {
    "name": "vcpkg-make",
    "host": true
  }
]
```

## Parameters

### AUTOCONFIG

> Boolean value that runs autoreconf when set.

Reviewer: How is this a "boolean value", and other keywords aren't?

### COPY_SOURCE

If specified, the source directory will be copied to the build directory before the configuration process begins. Useful for projects that modify the source tree during configuration or build.

### DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS

The `DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS` option controls the use of wrapper scripts specifically for tools such as Microsoft's `cl.exe` and the `windres` resource compiler. These wrappers translate and reorder command-line flags to accommodate the expected syntax and operational requirements of these tools. When this option is enabled, the cl.exe and windres tools will directly interpret command-line flags without any modifications

### NO_CPPFLAGS

> Disable the extraction of C preprocessor/target/arch flags from `CCFLAGS` into `CPPFLAGS`. Use this if the project does not use `CPPFLAGS`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disable the extraction of C preprocessor/target/arch flags from `CFLAGS` into `CPPFLAGS`. Use this if the project does not use `CPPFLAGS`.
```
???

description: Use vcpkg_make_configure to configure a Make-based project.
ms.date: 01/30/2024
---
# vcpkg_make_configure

Configure a Make-based project.

## Usage
        
```cmake
vcpkg_make_configure(
    [AUTOCONFIG]
    [COPY_SOURCE]
    [DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS]
    [NO_CPPFLAGS]
    [ADD_BIN_TO_PATH]
    [NO_DEFAULT_OPTIONS]
    [NO_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING]
    [USE_RESPONSE_FILES]
    [SOURCE_PATH <source-path>]
    [SHELL <shell>]
    [OPTIONS <configure-setting>...]
    [OPTIONS_RELEASE <configure-setting>...]
    [OPTIONS_DEBUG <configure-setting>...]
    [PRE_CONFIGURE_CMAKE_COMMANDS <cmake-command>...]
    [POST_CONFIGURE_CMAKE_COMMANDS <cmake-command>...]
    [LANGUAGES <language>...]
)
```

To use this function, you must depend on the helper port `vcpkg-make`:

```json
"dependencies": [
  {
    "name": "vcpkg-make",
    "host": true
  }
]
```

## Parameters

### AUTOCONFIG

Boolean value that runs autoreconf when set.

### COPY_SOURCE

If specified, the source directory will be copied to the build directory before the configuration process begins. Useful for projects that modify the source tree during configuration or build.

### DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS

> Disables the use of MSVC compiler wrappers. Useful for projects that are not compatible with the wrappers.

Reviewer 2: Should probably contain more information what those wrappers are actually doing? In general these are automake wrappers `ar-lib` (covnersion ar flags to lib flags) and `compile` (conversion and reordering of flags) but also custom vcpkg wrappers like `windres-rc` (take windres args -> convert to rc) , `cl-cpp-wrapper` (allow processing from stdin)

### NO_CPPFLAGS

> Prevents the addition of C Preprocessor flags to the compiler command line. Use this if the project does not use or incorrectly handles these flags.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Disable the extraction of C preprocessor/target/arch flags from `CCFLAGS` into `CPPFLAGS`. Use this if the project does not use `CPPFLAGS`.
```

If set, the `CPPFLAGS` environment variable, typically used for specifying C preprocessor flags, will not be automatically populated based on vcpkg's settings. This can be useful for projects that do not use standard environment variables or have specific preprocessor requirements.

### ADD_BIN_TO_PATH

> Adds the `bin` directory to the system path. This is useful for builds that require executables to be available on the path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adds the configure dependent `(debug/)bin` directory to the system path. This is useful if configure builds and runs executables with vcpkg integrated dependencies.
```

* For static library builds: --disable-shared and --enable-static

Installation Directories:
* Adjusts standard directories (bin, lib, share, etc.) to conform with vcpkg's layout, ensuring correct installation paths.

Platform-Specific Tweaks:
* On Windows: Ensures compatibility with Windows-specific filesystem and library behaviors.
* On Unix-like systems: Assures the script accommodates the typical filesystem layout and toolchain behaviors.

Removing these defaults gives you the responsibility to specify all necessary configuration options manually, ensuring the project is correctly configured for building with vcpkg.

### NO_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING

Turns off the escaping of MSVC flags. This might be necessary for projects that do not expect or handle escaped compiler flags properly.

### USE_RESPONSE_FILES

Enables the use of response files to pass arguments to the configure script. This can help avoid command line length limitations.

### SOURCE_PATH

The directory containing the project's source files

This value is usually obtained as a result of calling a source acquisition command like [`vcpkg_from_github()`](vcpkg_from_github.md).

### SHELL

> Specifies the shell to use for running the configuration scripts. Useful for ensuring compatibility in environments where the default shell might not behave as expected.

Reviewer 2: > Useful for ensuring compatibility in environments where the default shell might not behave as expected.

Main use was to inject a different MSYS environment instead of recreating another on.

### OPTIONS

Additional options to pass to the configure script. Use these to specify any custom flags or settings required by the project.

### OPTIONS_RELEASE

Additional options to pass to the configure script. Use these to specify any custom flags or settings required by the project.

These are in addition to `OPTIONS`.

### OPTIONS_DEBUG

Additional options to pass to the configure script. Use these to specify any custom flags or settings required by the project.

These are in addition to `OPTIONS`.

> 

Reviewer 2: Is it really necessary to document those one by one? Not even CMake is doing that.

### PRE_CONFIGURE_CMAKE_COMMANDS

Specifies a list of CMake commands to execute before the configure process. This can be used to set up the environment or prepare the build in a way that the configure script requires.

### POST_CONFIGURE_CMAKE_COMMANDS

Specifies a list of CMake commands to execute after the configure process. This can be used for cleanup or to prepare for the next steps in the build process.

> 

Reviewer 2: First argument passed to the called command is the current configuration type.

---
title: vcpkg_make_configure
description: Use vcpkg_make_configure to configure a Make-based project.
ms.date: 01/30/2024
---
# vcpkg_make_configure

Configure a Make-based project.

## Usage
        
```cmake
vcpkg_make_configure(
    [AUTOCONFIG]
    [COPY_SOURCE]
    [DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS]
    [DISABLE_CPPFLAGS]
    [DISABLE_DEFAULT_OPTIONS]
    [DISABLE_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING]
    [USE_RESPONSE_FILES]

>     [SOURCE_PATH <source-path>]

Reviewer 3: In usage instructions, square brackets usually means "optional". Is `SOURCE_PATH` optional?

```suggestion
    SOURCE_PATH <source-path>
```

Same question for the other parameters.

### DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS

By default, `vcpkg_make_configure` supplies wrappers that translate and reorder 'Unix / GCC-style' flags into 'MSVC-style' flags. This accommodates build systems that assume Unix or GCC conventions.

Setting `DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS` disables translation of flags, allowing tools like `cl` and `windres` to receive command-line flags without modifications.

### DISABLE_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING

By default, escape characters (e.g., -Xcompiler, -Xlinker) are added before compiler and linker flags when using MSVC. These escape characters are intended for use by the wrappers and libtool to protect flags that might contain spaces, quotes, or other special characters from being misinterpreted. Setting `DISABLE_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING` disables this behavior. 

This can be useful in situations where you're using custom build scripts or tools that require specific flag formatting.

>[!NOTE]
>If you disable the MSVC wrappers using `DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS`, this option (`DISABLE_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING`) has no effect because the escape characters are not added in the first place.

> ### DSIABLE_CPPFLAGS

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### DISABLE_CPPFLAGS
```

Disables the extraction of C preprocessor flags (`-D` and `-isystem`) from `CFLAGS` and `CXXFLAGS` into `CPPFLAGS`.

By default, `vcpkg_make_configure` extracts preprocessor relevant flags from the `CFLAGS` and `CXXFLAGS` environment variables into `CPPFLAGS`, because preprocessor flags in vcpkg are normally supplied through compiler settings variables like `VCPKG_C_FLAGS` or `VCPKG_CXX_FLAGS`.

Setting `DISABLE_CPPFLAGS` disables that behavior, leaving preprocessor relevant flags in `CFLAGS` and `CXXFLAGS`.

This can be useful for projects that do not use standard environment variables or have specific preprocessor requirements.

### DISABLE_DEFAULT_OPTIONS

Setting this flag disables the following default configure options provided by `vcpkg_make_configure`. Use this flag if you need full control over the configure command line.

General Defaults:
* --disable-silent-rules - Makes the build process output more verbose.
* --verbose - Enables verbose output from the configure script.

Library Linkage:
* For dynamic library builds: --enable-shared and --disable-static
* For static library builds: --disable-shared and --enable-static

Installation Directories:

> * Adjusts standard directories (bin, lib, share, etc.) to conform with vcpkg's layout, ensuring correct installation paths.

Reviewer 3: Wording is weak / fluffy without content.
```suggestion
* Adjusts standard directories (bin, lib, share, etc.) to conform with vcpkg's layout.
```
It would be great to concretely list the flags passed (like `--prefix=`, `--execprefix=`, ...)

> Platform-Specific Tweaks:

Reviewer 3: This section seems like it should be summarized as "Additional mysterious platform tweaks." -- the text below just says "On windows we apply windows tweaks. On non-windows we apply non-windows tweaks".

It would be much better to give some indication of what is actually done. Are all arguments scanned for absolute paths? Are backslashes converted to forward slashes?

* On Windows: Ensures compatibility with Windows-specific filesystem and library behaviors.

> * On Unix-like systems: Assures the script accommodates the typical filesystem layout and toolchain behaviors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* On Unix-like systems: Ensures the script accommodates the typical filesystem layout and toolchain behaviors.
```

> Removing these defaults gives you the responsibility to specify all necessary configuration options manually, ensuring the project is correctly configured for building with vcpkg.

Reviewer 3: This line needs a rewrite.

> ### USE_RESPONSE_FILES

Reviewer 3: Why should this _ever_ be off? Why would a port be responsible for deciding?

Author: @Neumann-A mentioned using a linker that doesn't support response files -> https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg/pull/33198#discussion_r1451041429

Looking into it now, I see that GCC 3.x series and QNX 7.x series don't support response files. That said, GCC 3.x is over twenty years old at this point and QNX appears to be an OS related to embedded systems? 

@Neumann-A, can you describe which linker didn't support response files? It does seem like we should just always use response files.

Enables the use of response files to pass arguments to the linker.

If set, the code generates response files for the linker flags (`CPPFLAGS`, `CFLAGS`, `CXXFLAGS`, `LDFLAGS`) and passes the response file path to the linker instead of the individual flags. If it's false, the flags are passed directly.

This can be helpful when dealing with long command lines that exceed the maximum allowed length.

### SOURCE_PATH

The directory containing the project's source files

This value is usually obtained as a result of calling a source acquisition command like [`vcpkg_from_github()`](vcpkg_from_github.md).

### OPTIONS

Additional options to pass to the configure script. Use these to specify any custom flags or settings required by the project.

### OPTIONS_RELEASE

Additional options to pass to the configure script. Use these to specify any custom flags or settings required by the project.

These are in addition to `OPTIONS`.

### OPTIONS_DEBUG

Additional options to pass to the configure script. Use these to specify any custom flags or settings required by the project.

These are in addition to `OPTIONS`.

### PRE_CONFIGURE_CMAKE_COMMANDS

> Specifies a list of CMake commands to execute before the configure process for each build type. That is, if `VCPKG_BUILD_TYPE` is empty (the default), these commands will run once for debug and once for release. If `VCPKG_BUILD_TYPE` is `release`, these commands will only be once for release. This can be used to set up the environment or prepare the build in a way that the configure script requires.

Reviewer 3: This needs an example. Do I pass the name of a function? What arguments does it receive?

```cmake
function(my_preconfigure_command SRC BUILD_TYPE)
    # Each source directory gets different version.txt files
    if(BUILD_TYPE STREQUAL "release")
        file(WRITE "${SRC}/version.txt" "This is a release version!")
    else()
        file(WRITE "${SRC}/version.txt" "This is a debug version!")
    endif()
    # The environment variable has different values for each configuration
    set(ENV{SPECIAL} "${BUILD_TYPE} is magic")
endfunction()

vcpkg_make_configure(
    # ...
    PRE_CONFIGURE_CMAKE_COMMANDS my_preconfigure_command
)
```

>[!NOTE]
> When the `COPY_SOURCE` option is not set, the CMake commands in `PRE_CONFIGURE_CMAKE_COMMANDS` will operate directly on the files in the original source directory.

### LANGUAGES

> Specifies the programming languages your project uses.

Reviewer 3: What are the valid values? What are the consequences?

---
title: vcpkg_make_configure
description: Use vcpkg_make_configure to configure a Make-based project.
ms.date: 01/30/2024
---
# vcpkg_make_configure

Configure a Make-based project.

## Usage
        
```cmake
vcpkg_make_configure(
    [AUTOCONFIG]
    [COPY_SOURCE]
    [DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS]
    [DISABLE_CPPFLAGS]
    [DISABLE_DEFAULT_OPTIONS]
    [DISABLE_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING]
    [USE_RESPONSE_FILES]
    [SOURCE_PATH <source-path>]
    [OPTIONS <configure-setting>...]
    [OPTIONS_RELEASE <configure-setting>...]
    [OPTIONS_DEBUG <configure-setting>...]
    [PRE_CONFIGURE_CMAKE_COMMANDS <cmake-command>...]
    [LANGUAGES <language>...]
)
```

To use this function, you must depend on the helper port `vcpkg-make`:

```json
"dependencies": [
  {
    "name": "vcpkg-make",
    "host": true
  }
]
```

## Parameters

### AUTOCONFIG

Runs autoreconf when set.

### COPY_SOURCE

If specified, the source directory will be copied to the build directory before the configuration process begins. Useful for projects that modify the source tree during configuration or build.

### DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS

> By default, `vcpkg_make_configure` supplies wrappers that translate and reorder 'unix / gcc-style' flags into 'msvc-style' flags. This accommodates build systems that assume unix or gcc conventions.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By default, `vcpkg_make_configure` supplies wrappers that translate and reorder Unix/GCC-style flags into MSVC-style flags. This accommodates build systems that assume Unix or GCC conventions.
```

I don't know if there's a proper capitalization for `gcc` and `msvc`?

> Setting `DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS` removes these wrappers and allows the underlying make build system to supply 'msvc-style' flags directly without translation. When this option is enabled, the `cl` and `windres` tools will directly interpret command-line flags without any modifications.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Setting `DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS` disables translation of flags, allowing tools like `cl` and `windres` to receive command-line flags without modifications.
```

I think we're repeating ourselves too much, let's simplify this a bit.

### DISABLE_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING

By default, escape characters (e.g., -Xcompiler, -Xlinker) are added before compiler and linker flags when using MSVC. These escape characters are intended for use by the wrappers and libtool to protect flags that might contain spaces, quotes, or other special characters from being misinterpreted.

> When you set `NO_MSVC_FeLAG_ESCAPING`, you tell vcpkg not to perform this automatic escaping. This can be useful in situations where:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Setting `DISABLE_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING` disables this behavior. This can be useful in situations where:
```

Is it `NO_` or `DISABLE_`, or both?

Author: Just `DISABLE_`

> - You know your flags are formatted correctly: If you're confident that your compiler and linker flags don't contain problematic characters, you can avoid unnecessary escaping.

Reviewer 4: Unnecessary escaping should have no effect (except on readability) and thus I would suggest against recommending this option for said purpose, the scenario of custom build scripts is still valid.

---
title: vcpkg_make_configure
description: Use vcpkg_make_configure to configure a Make-based project.
ms.date: 01/30/2024
---
# vcpkg_make_configure

Configure a Make-based project.

## Usage
        
```cmake
vcpkg_make_configure(
    [AUTOCONFIG]
    [COPY_SOURCE]
    [DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS]
    [NO_CPPFLAGS]
    [ADD_BIN_TO_PATH]
    [NO_DEFAULT_OPTIONS]
    [NO_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING]
    [USE_RESPONSE_FILES]
    [SOURCE_PATH <source-path>]
    [OPTIONS <configure-setting>...]
    [OPTIONS_RELEASE <configure-setting>...]
    [OPTIONS_DEBUG <configure-setting>...]
    [PRE_CONFIGURE_CMAKE_COMMANDS <cmake-command>...]
    [LANGUAGES <language>...]
)
```

To use this function, you must depend on the helper port `vcpkg-make`:

```json
"dependencies": [
  {
    "name": "vcpkg-make",
    "host": true
  }
]
```

## Parameters

### AUTOCONFIG

Runs autoreconf when set.

### COPY_SOURCE

If specified, the source directory will be copied to the build directory before the configuration process begins. Useful for projects that modify the source tree during configuration or build.

> ### DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS

Reviewer 5: Why is one of these `NO_Xxx` and the other `DISABLE_Xxx`; shouldn't it be one pattern or the other?

Disables the use of wrapper scripts for MSVC tools (cl.exe, windres).

> These wrappers translate and reorder command-line flags to accommodate the expected syntax and operational requirements of these tools. When this option is enabled, the `cl.exe` and `windres` tools will directly interpret command-line flags without any modifications.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
By default, `vcpkg_make_configure` supplies wrappers that translate and reorder 'unix / gcc-style' flags into 'msvc-style' flags. This accommodates build systems that assume unix or gcc conventions.

Setting `DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS` removes these wrappers and allows the underlying make build system to supply 'msvc-style' flags directly without translation. When this option is enabled, the `cl` and `windres` tools will directly interpret command-line flags without any modifications.
```

I'm not sure if it should be `cl.exe` and `windres.exe` or `cl` and `windres` but I don't think one should have `.exe` and the other not. I removed `.exe` in my suggestion as I think it's more common to not explicitly say `.exe`

Reviewer 5: Should there be a note about `NO_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING` here?

### NO_CPPFLAGS

> Disables the extraction of C preprocessor flags (`-D` and `-isystem`) from `CFLAGS` into `CPPFLAGS`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disables the extraction of C preprocessor flags (`-D`, `-I`, `-isystem`) from `CFLAGS` and `CXXFLAGS` into `CPPFLAGS`.
```

> Disables the extraction of C preprocessor flags (`-D` and `-isystem`) from `CFLAGS` into `CPPFLAGS`.

Reviewer: But it is also not in the current `vcpkg_configure_make`, so maybe I just didn't think enough at 10pm.

By default (when `NO_CPPFLAGS` is not set or is false), vcpkg automatically identifies and extracts these flags from the `CFLAGS` and `CXXFLAGS` variables, which typically contain general compiler options. It then consolidates these specific flags into a separate `CPPFLAGS` variable, dedicated to preprocessor and include path settings.

However, if you explicitly set `NO_CPPFLAGS` to true, you override this default behavior. Vcpkg will then leave the `-D` and `-isystem` flags untouched in their original variables (`CFLAGS` and `CXXFLAGS`). 

If set, the `CPPFLAGS` environment variable, typically used for specifying C preprocessor flags, will not be automatically populated based on vcpkg's settings. This can be useful for projects that do not use standard environment variables or have specific preprocessor requirements.

### ADD_BIN_TO_PATH

> Adds the configure dependent `(debug/)bin` directory to the system path. This is useful if configure builds and runs executables with vcpkg integrated dependencies.

Reviewer 5: What does 'configure dependent' mean?

Hmmm... what does this do when crosscompiling?

### NO_DEFAULT_OPTIONS

> When set, this flag disables the automatic inclusion of the following default configure options provided by `vcpkg_make_configure`. Use this flag if you need full control over the configure command line:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Setting this flag disables the following default configure options provided by `vcpkg_make_configure`. Use this flag if you need full control over the configure command line.
```

General Defaults:
* --disable-silent-rules - Makes the build process output more verbose.
* --verbose - Enables verbose output from the configure script.

Library Linkage:
* For dynamic library builds: --enable-shared and --disable-static
* For static library builds: --disable-shared and --enable-static

Installation Directories:
* Adjusts standard directories (bin, lib, share, etc.) to conform with vcpkg's layout, ensuring correct installation paths.

Platform-Specific Tweaks:
* On Windows: Ensures compatibility with Windows-specific filesystem and library behaviors.
* On Unix-like systems: Assures the script accommodates the typical filesystem layout and toolchain behaviors.

Removing these defaults gives you the responsibility to specify all necessary configuration options manually, ensuring the project is correctly configured for building with vcpkg.

### NO_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING

> By default, escape characters (e.g., -Xcompiler, -Xlinker) are added before compiler and linker flags when using MSVC. This is done to ensure that these flags, which might contain spaces or other special characters, are correctly interpreted by the underlying MSVC tools (cl.exe, link.exe)

Reviewer 5: MSVC doesn't know `-Xcompiler` or `-Xlinker`, is there some other tool that reads these?

Author: No, this is for the wrappers. I'll explicitly mention that

When you set `NO_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING`, you tell vcpkg not to perform this automatic escaping. This can be useful in situations where:

- You know your flags are formatted correctly: If you're confident that your compiler and linker flags don't contain problematic characters, you can avoid unnecessary escaping.
- You're using custom build scripts: If you have custom build scripts or tools that require specific flag formatting, disabling automatic escaping might be necessary for compatibility.

>[!NOTE]

> >If you disable the MSVC wrappers using `DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS`, this option (`NO_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING`) has no effect because the escape characters are not added in the first place.

Reviewer 5: Should this be reordered to be next to `DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS` then?

Reviewer 5: I think it would be good do add a table if possible describing the interactions between these two switches. Something like:

Input: `-Wall -O3 -isystem C:/headers/here -g /GL`

|                       | (default)                                    | `DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS`                     |
|-----------------------|----------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| (default)             | `/W3 /O2 /IC:/headers/here /Z7 -Xcompiler /GL` | `-Wall -O3 -isystem C:/headers/here -g /GL` |
| `NO_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING` | `/W3 /O2 /IC:/headers/here /Z7 /GL`            | `-Wall -O3 -isystem C:/headers/here -g /GL` |

### USE_RESPONSE_FILES

Enables the use of response files to pass arguments to the linker.

If set, the code generates response files for the linker flags (`CPPFLAGS`, `CFLAGS`, `CXXFLAGS`, `LDFLAGS`) and passes the response file path to the linker instead of the individual flags. If it's false, the flags are passed directly.

This can be helpful when dealing with long command lines that exceed the maximum allowed length.

### SOURCE_PATH

The directory containing the project's source files

This value is usually obtained as a result of calling a source acquisition command like [`vcpkg_from_github()`](vcpkg_from_github.md).

### OPTIONS

Additional options to pass to the configure script. Use these to specify any custom flags or settings required by the project.

### OPTIONS_RELEASE

Additional options to pass to the configure script. Use these to specify any custom flags or settings required by the project.

These are in addition to `OPTIONS`.

### OPTIONS_DEBUG

Additional options to pass to the configure script. Use these to specify any custom flags or settings required by the project.

These are in addition to `OPTIONS`.

### PRE_CONFIGURE_CMAKE_COMMANDS

> Specifies a list of CMake commands to execute before the configure process. This can be used to set up the environment or prepare the build in a way that the configure script requires.

Reviewer 5: My understanding of this option was something like the following:

```suggestion
Specifies a list of CMake commands to execute before the configure process for each build type. That is, if `VCPKG_BUILD_TYPE` is empty (the default), these commands will run once for debug and once for release. If `VCPKG_BUILD_TYPE` is `release`, these commands will only be once for release. This can be used to set up the environment or prepare the build in a way that the configure script requires.
```

Is my understanding incorrect?

What happens when this option is used without `COPY_SOURCE`?

---
title: vcpkg_make_configure
description: Use vcpkg_make_configure to configure a Make-based project.
ms.date: 01/30/2024
---
# vcpkg_make_configure

Configure a Make-based project.

## Usage
        
```cmake
vcpkg_make_configure(
    SOURCE_PATH <source-path>
    [AUTOCONFIG]
    [COPY_SOURCE]
    [DISABLE_MSVC_WRAPPERS]
    [DISABLE_CPPFLAGS]
    [DISABLE_DEFAULT_OPTIONS]
    [DISABLE_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING]
    [OPTIONS <configure-setting>...]
    [OPTIONS_RELEASE <configure-setting>...]
    [OPTIONS_DEBUG <configure-setting>...]
    [PRE_CONFIGURE_CMAKE_COMMANDS <cmake-command>...]
    [LANGUAGES <language>...]
)
```

To use this function, you must depend on the helper port `vcpkg-make`:

```json
"dependencies": [
  {
    "name": "vcpkg-make",
    "host": true
  }
]
```

## Parameters

### SOURCE_PATH

> The directory containing the project's source files

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The directory containing the project's source files.
```

### NO_MSVC_FLAG_ESCAPING

By default, escape characters (e.g., -Xcompiler, -Xlinker) are added before flags to ensure that MSVC interprets them correctly. These escape characters help prevent issues caused by spaces, quotes, or other special characters that might be misinterpreted by the MSVC command-line tools.

> 

Reviewer 2: `-Xcompiler, -Xlinker` are flags for the wrappers / libtool not for MSVC
